for centuries the Arabs held camel races
to celebrate special occasions but in
the last 50 years
camel racing has been transformed
echoing changes that have swept all
across Arabia now this is one of the
richest sports in the world the winner
of this race stands to win a million
dollars the prize money at stake means
that 21st century camel racing has moved
far beyond anything these camel handlers
grandparents could have imagined
in today's camera races modern
technology is in the driving seat
literally
[Music]
to save on weight jockeys have been
replaced by robots wearing no more than
a laptop
[Music]
the camel trainers drive alongside
they scream instructions to their camels
through a speaker on the robot the
frenzy is added to by the fevered
excitement of the race commentator
broadcasting live to the nation when an
extra burst of speed is needed each
robot carries a whip which the trainer
operates by remote control
[Music]
in today's Arabia camel training has
become a sophisticated business
scientific breeding and state-of-the-art
training have turned these camels into
elite racing machines the average speed
of a racehorse in Europe hasn't changed
in half a century while the average
speed of a racing camel has increased by
30%
[Music]
you